README.md, before:


<div align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/spartee/redis-vector-search"><img src="https://github.com/Spartee/redis-vector-search/blob/master/app/vecsim_app/data/redis-logo.png?raw=true" width="30%"><img></a>
    <br />
    <br />
<div display="inline-block">
    <a href="https://github.com/Spartee/redis-vector-search"><b>Code</b></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    <a href="https://redis.io/docs/stack/search/reference/vectors/"><b>Redis VSS Documentation</b></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  </div>
    <br />
    <br />
</div>

# Redis Vector Search Demo Application

This demo showcases the vector search similarity (VSS) capability within Redis Stack and Redis Enterprise.
Through the RediSearch module, vector types and indexes can be added to Redis. This turns Redis into
a highly performant vector database which can be used for all types of applications.

The following Redis Stack capabilities are available in this demo:
   - **Vector Similarity Search**
     - by image
     - by text
   - **Multiple vector indexing types**
     - HNSW
     - Flat (brute-force)
   - **Hybrid Queries**
     - Apply tags as pre-filter for vector search
   - **Full text search**
   - **JSON storage**


## Application

This app was built as a Single Page Application (SPA) with the following components:

- **[Redis Stack](https://redis.io/docs/stack/)**: Vector database + JSON storage
- **[FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)** (Python 3.8)
  - JWT authentication using [OAuth2 "password
    flow"](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/security/simple-oauth2/) and
    PyJWT
- **[Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/)** for schema and validation
- **[React](https://reactjs.org/)** (with Typescript)
- **[Redis OM](https://redis.io/docs/stack/get-started/tutorials/stack-python/)** for ORM
- **[Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)** for development
- **[MaterialUI](https://material-ui.com/)** for some UI elements
- **[React-Bootstrap](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/)** for some UI elements
- **[react-admin](https://github.com/marmelab/react-admin)** for the admin dashboard
  - Using the same token based authentication as FastAPI backend (JWT)
- **[Pytorch/Img2Vec](https://github.com/christiansafka/img2vec)** and **[Huggingface Sentence Transformers](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers)** for vector embedding creation

Some inspiration was taken from this [Cookiecutter project](https://github.com/Buuntu/fastapi-react)
and turned into a SPA application instead of a separate front-end server approach.


### Datasets

The dataset was taken from the the following Kaggle links.

- [Large Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/paramaggarwal/fashion-product-images-dataset)
- [Smaller Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/paramaggarwal/fashion-product-images-small)


## Running Locally

### Using pre-built containers

The easiest option to run locally is to use the following docker-compose file to launch the
prebuilt container hosted on GitHub.

```yaml
version: '3.7'
services:

  redis-vector-db:
    image: redis/redis-stack:latest
    ports:
      - 6379:6379
      - 8001:8001

  backend:
    image: ghcr.io/spartee/redis-vss-fashion:v0.2.0
    environment:
      DEPLOYMENT: "dev"
      REDIS_DATA_URL: 'redis://redis-vector-db:6379'
      REDIS_OM_URL: 'redis://redis-vector-db:6379'
      REDIS_HOST: 'redis-vector-db'
      REDIS_PORT: 6379
    expose:
      - "8888"
    ports:
      - "8888:8888"
    depends_on:
      - "redis-vector-db"

```

To launch, run the following
- ``docker compose up`` in same directory as ``docker-compose.yml``
- Navigate to ``0.0.0.0:8888`` in a browser

### Building the containers

More to come here

### Running outside docker

More to come here

Commit message:

update README and local proxy so you can easily attach to dockerized backend from the outside

README.md, after:


<div align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/spartee/redis-vector-search"><img src="https://github.com/Spartee/redis-vector-search/blob/master/app/vecsim_app/data/redis-logo.png?raw=true" width="30%"><img></a>
    <br />
    <br />
<div display="inline-block">
    <a href="https://github.com/Spartee/redis-vector-search"><b>Code</b></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    <a href="https://redis.io/docs/stack/search/reference/vectors/"><b>Redis VSS Documentation</b></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  </div>
    <br />
    <br />
</div>

# Redis Vector Search Demo Application

This demo showcases the vector search similarity (VSS) capability within Redis Stack and Redis Enterprise.
Through the RediSearch module, vector types and indexes can be added to Redis. This turns Redis into
a highly performant vector database which can be used for all types of applications.

The following Redis Stack capabilities are available in this demo:
   - **Vector Similarity Search**
     - by image
     - by text
   - **Multiple vector indexing types**
     - HNSW
     - Flat (brute-force)
   - **Hybrid Queries**
     - Apply tags as pre-filter for vector search
   - **Full text search**
   - **JSON storage**


## Application

This app was built as a Single Page Application (SPA) with the following components:

- **[Redis Stack](https://redis.io/docs/stack/)**: Vector database + JSON storage
- **[FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)** (Python 3.8)
  - JWT authentication using [OAuth2 "password
    flow"](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/security/simple-oauth2/) and
    PyJWT
- **[Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/)** for schema and validation
- **[React](https://reactjs.org/)** (with Typescript)
- **[Redis OM](https://redis.io/docs/stack/get-started/tutorials/stack-python/)** for ORM
- **[Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)** for development
- **[MaterialUI](https://material-ui.com/)** for some UI elements
- **[React-Bootstrap](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/)** for some UI elements
- **[react-admin](https://github.com/marmelab/react-admin)** for the admin dashboard
  - Using the same token based authentication as FastAPI backend (JWT)
- **[Pytorch/Img2Vec](https://github.com/christiansafka/img2vec)** and **[Huggingface Sentence Transformers](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers)** for vector embedding creation

Some inspiration was taken from this [Cookiecutter project](https://github.com/Buuntu/fastapi-react)
and turned into a SPA application instead of a separate front-end server approach.


### Datasets

The dataset was taken from the the following Kaggle links.

- [Large Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/paramaggarwal/fashion-product-images-dataset)
- [Smaller Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/paramaggarwal/fashion-product-images-small)


## Running Locally
Before you can run the application locally, you must use the Jupyter Notebook in the `data/` directory to create product embeddings and product metadata JSON files. Both files will end up stored in the `data/` directory. Then you can proceed with one or both of the options below.

### Using pre-built containers

The easiest option to run locally is to use the following docker-compose file to launch the
prebuilt container hosted on GitHub.

```yaml
version: '3.7'
services:

  redis-vector-db:
    image: redis/redis-stack:latest
    ports:
      - 6379:6379
      - 8001:8001

  backend:
    image: ghcr.io/spartee/redis-vss-fashion:v0.2.0
    environment:
      DEPLOYMENT: "dev"
      REDIS_DATA_URL: 'redis://redis-vector-db:6379'
      REDIS_OM_URL: 'redis://redis-vector-db:6379'
      REDIS_HOST: 'redis-vector-db'
      REDIS_PORT: 6379
    expose:
      - "8888"
    ports:
      - "8888:8888"
    depends_on:
      - "redis-vector-db"

```

To launch, run the following
- ``docker compose up --build`` in same directory as ``docker-compose.yml``
- Wait while things install and get setup
- Navigate to `http://localhost:8888` in a browser

### Using a React development env
It's typically easier to write front end code in an interactive environment (**outside of Docker**)where one can test out code changes in real time. In order to use this approach:

1. Follow steps from previous section with Docker Compose to deploy the backend API.
2. Skip the step about launching a browser at host/port.
3. `cd gui/` directory and use `yarn` to install packages: `yarn install --no-optional` (you may need to use `npm` to install `yarn`).
4. Use `yarn` to serve the application from your machine: `yarn start`.
5. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in a browser.

### Troubleshooting

#### Issues building the container
- Sometimes it works if you try again. Or maybe you need to clear out some Docker cache. Run `docker system prune`, restart Docker Desktop, and try again.
- The generated `node_modules` folder (under `gui/` when running the app outside of Docker) can mess things up when building docker images. Delete that folder (if present) and try rebuilding again.
